Add 2nd Trino teaser (#363)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2022-10-19-trino-summit-2022-teaser-2.md

---
layout: post
title: "Trino Summit 2022: Federating humans and data"
author: "Brian Olsen"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-summit-2022/summit-logo.png
---

Trino has long been the de facto standard to querying large data sets over your
cloud or on-prem storage, also known as data lakes. This Trino Summit's theme 

> instead will showcase Trino's other claim to fame: query federation. In essence,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead will showcase Trino's other claim to fame: query federation.
```

Trino is a query engine providing an access point that exposes ANSI SQL across 
[multiple data sources]({{site.url}}/docs/current/connector.html).

I urge you to join us either in-person or virtually if you are a fan of Trino,

> big data, open source, data engineering, Java, or all the above! This conference

Reviewer: all the above .. doesnt work here, right?

Author: All the above meaning you can be a fan of Trino, big data, open source, data engineering, and Java all at once.

> is free and takes place on November 10th. Check out the details below!

Reviewer: do we need to add "in San Francisco" ?

Reviewer: Also .. should we remove "Check out the details below!" .. there is already a read more link

Author: Fair, I just wanted it to be clear that we'll provide more details about how to attend if someone was lazy but it should be obvious to read on.

<!--more-->

## Register for the summit

I can't help but bring up the analogy of how Trino federates heterogeneous data
while this Trino Summit will federate many of us in the community form all

> corners of the earth. It really brings an appreciation to the international

Reviewer: of the world

> reach this technology has and makes me look forward to future in-person events!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reach of Trino and makes me look forward to more in-person events!
```

> Trino Summit will be held at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco, CA. Make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trino Summit will be held at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco, California. Make
```

sure you register quickly for in-person registration, as it is limited to 250

> seats! Virtual registration is also picking up quickly so register today!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seats. Virtual registration is also picking up quickly so register today!
```

approaches are: auto-scale Trino clusters, experiment with different cluster and
JVM configurations, and instance types, build checkers to detect slow workers
and inefficient queries, and set up extensive monitoring.

* *Yifan Pan, Software Engineer of Data Infrastructure Team at Quora; 
  Administrator/Primary Owner of Trino infrastructure at Quora*

### How we use Trino to analyze our Product-led Growth (PLG) user activation funnel

Being a PLG company, we must track and analyze every action our users perform
within the product to remove friction and maximize usage and satisfaction. To
understand how effectively and quickly users become educated and then active in
the product, we had to instrument the user journey from signup to the Aha moment
and beyond.

There are many tools on the market that can be used to analyze user behavior,
but none met our needs. In this session you will learn how we built a data
architecture to collect, model, and enrich user behavior events to optimize
Trino query performance that accelerated our ability to understand and improve
user conversion rates.

* *Roy Hasson, Head of Product at Upsolver*

## Conclusion

> I hope you all are excited as we are to finally federate the Trino community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hope you all are as excited as we are to finally federate the Trino community
```
